and at this point i'm... well, i'm not afraid to ask and to try, but i think i need to go about things a bit differently from the norm. 

in the wake of cohost's sunset, many of it's former users have started building personal websites, blogs, webrings, in an effort to keep connected. some have always had a website, some are remaking and updating theirs with renewed interest, and some are entirely new to the rodeo. i've been trying to do the same for a *long* time, but i've never quite known how to go about it, and the 3 or so attempts i made before this to create something using carrd wound up unfinished and dead in the water. it mostly has to do with what i want a website about myself in this day and age to be. just a simple links page? well, no, i don't want to exist primarily on social media anymore. a portfolio of artwork? yeah, i should do that, but it doesn't really explain much about me. a blog? well...

## look it's just really hard alright

blogs and long-form writing is a daunting task, especially with the pressure of keeping it updated regularly (a pressure that is self enforced by my own anxiety, admittedly). i've tried to make a few in the past, one using neocities, and one using write.as, but wound up with a different problem in each.

for neocities, it's the pain of html and css. coding a website from scratch and turning it into your own personal home feels and looks amazing, but having to go in and manually update anything - adding new gallery images, or converting a written article into a nice page layout - ended up being a nightmare for my brain. i actually made quite a few websites from scratch, all with different ideas, but once the initial construction was done, the site would grow stagnant and abandoned as i struggled to add things to it.

for write.as, the problem was entirely different. write.as is designed to give you as little friction and steps as it can between writing your article and publishing it online. so, i wrote a few blog posts about some games and media i liked, i had some more in the workshop on PSA's, and then... another brick wall, struggling with the "formality" of blog posting. it never felt like it was enough to just write something and publish it. i had to make sure the wording was right, that i was explaining concepts in enough detail, that nothing was too unprofessional. this was supposed to be representing the best version of myself, and my brain could never make that work. once again, this is a mindset entirely self-enforced - but it's what i had known and seen a blog to be. in a world where you can note any thought on social media, blogs felt to me like they had to be something more. so, the write.as blog too grew stagnant and unloved.

and so, we come back to this. i want a place to publish my journal and in-depth thoughts on things i'm playing, watching, experiencing, without the torture of having to hand-code it all myself, and without the formality of a chronological "professional" blog. what to do?
## the concept of the "digital garden"

while searching around for static site generators i could use to try and make my new website a reality (and tearing my hair out seeing how confusing their documentation was), i re-stumbled upon a concept i had definitely seen before on the internet, but forgotten about. the digital garden, the personal wiki. not a blog, but a space for you to put ideas and notes anywhere you want, archive and catalogue inspiration sources, slowly build and nurture them over time. less emphasis on chronlogical and linear updates and just adding new pages and letting them grow as is. and i ended up realizing that, wait a minute - i've been doing this for like 2 years now and i didn't even realize it. 

while i'm not very good at making finalized blogs and essays, i take notes **all the fucking time**, and had been trying several methods to keep them all tied together with mixed results - tiers of notepads, scrapbooks, writing tools, at one point i bought a blackberry phone to write thoughts on the go with a keyboard. eventually, around 2022-ish, a friend introduced me to notion, a notepad app that you could use on any device that could connect to the internet, and that synced automatically in the cloud. this has now become my main method of keeping all my notes, stories, journal entries and ideas tied together, although i've since switched to using obsidian (no thank you to notion's AI integration ¬_¬).

this idea feels a lot more in sync and easier to do with the way our sort-of-chaotic mind works. i don't want to have to bake all of my thoughts before publishing anything, nor do i want to do writeups inbetween my thoughts to link everything and make it make sense in some grander context. i want things to exist and be, for me to be able to come back whenever, and for the people reading to wonder and fill in some of their own gaps and thoughts too. 
## and so you are looking at a website of which belongs to us

i'm using a tool called Quartz which has been built around Obsidian, which allows me to just add, edit and remove whatever whenever i want with no fuss. this idea still might not work out. it might go stagnant within a year again and i'll still be frustrated trying to get things to work. better to try than to not, though. 

an unfortunate side effect of this method of gardening is that there's not really a feasible way for me to provide an RSS feed to you, like everyone else is doing. i might create a little section on the home page where i can log what pages have been updated, and maybe *that* can go into an RSS feed? no idea yet. still lots of things to learn about this platform and how i can bend it to my will.